To remember in Spanish, to remember in Spanish is acordarse.
Acordarse.
So it's acordar
It just means this say on the end just means that when we use this verb we need to say I remember myself to give the meaning of I remember.
So how would you say I remember?
Good.
The old splits.
It's uh yeah.
So I remember.
Me acuerdo.
I don't remember
No me acuerdo.
I don't remember.
Good.
So I don't remember if I gave it to him or to her.
I don't remember if I gave it to him or to her.
So I don't remember.
If I gave it to him or to her
Si lo si se lo di a el or ella or to her, or a ella good
No me acuerdo si se lo di a él o a ella.
Very good.
How would you say we don't remember if we gave it to him or to them?
And we mean feminine them.
So we don't remember is the first bit.
No, no.
Good.
No nos accordamos because here we're not stressing the O, it's not going to split.
No nos accordamos if
See, we gave it to him or to them, female group lo dimus
Isn't that right?
The to when we actually say to him or to them is the clarification.
It's the repetition.
Se lo dimus.
To him or to them, feminine them.
A-L O A S.
Good.
So all together, huh?
We don't remember if we gave it to him or to them.
Feminine.
Where is the set in no accordamos?
Where is the set of accordarse?
No nos accordamos.
It became nos.
Si se lo dimos a él o a ellas.
Well done.
No nos acordamos si se lo dimos a él o a ellas.
What was he like it?
It is pleasing to him.
Le Lo Gusta.
Make sure you take the mid-road
Until you are extremely comfortable with how Gustav works, take the mid-road of it is pleasing to him.
Le gusta.
Good.
She likes it.
La gusta.
No.
Legusta.
Le gusta.
It's still to her.
It is pleasing to her.
Legusta.
So legusta could mean he likes it, she likes it, what else could it mean?
It is pleasing to who else?
Usted.
Good.
So maybe here you want to clarify.
Legusta.
It's not very obvious who you mean.
By the context it might be
But we're seeing especially with this group of he she and Usted all together, many times we're wanting to clarify
So, bearing in mind that the structure is it is pleasing to him, it is pleasing to her, it is pleasing to you, how are you going to clarify?
If you want to clarify that you mean she likes it.
Legusta a ella.
Good.
So this is why it's important to take that mid-translation as well.
Otherwise you would probably just say ella legusta
Which would mean she is pleasing to whoever that lay is.
We would just understand that somebody likes her.
She is pleasing to
So to make it clear we need to put the a legusta a ella a ella le gusta to her it is pleasing it is pleasing to her and if we wanted to say
He liked it.
It was pleasing to him.
So it's Gusteau.
Good.
Le Gusteau
So this could mean it was pleasing to him, it was pleasing to her, it was pleasing to you formal.
Could be any combination of he, she, it
So how would you clarify?
How would you say it was pleasing to her?
She liked it.
It was pleasing to her.
Le gustó a ella.
Le custó a ella.
Good.